welcome today I'm Ted Robinson I'm known
in the rain cow horse world the cow
horses have what I'm all about and this
is what works for me and hopefully I can
help you with your horse
we're trying our best to reach down deep
and get into the the chest and pull out
all the real secrets to show you really
what makes a horse work the first
exercise I'll show he's just getting
that head neck broke because of the
shoulders I'm really big into watching
that ear I know okay those are real
marks that tell you whether that horse
is flexing the way he's supposed to what
you want to look for is a perfect V in
this neck you want to see an arc right
here now when I flex that neck I also
want to feel that that shoulder moves
away just to touch so when I pick up
this rain boom there's that shoulder it
stepped away just a little bit so now he
really relaxed and he's walking a
straight line and you can see this horse
starting to flex that left side a lot
better and I've pushed me running around
with that right leg as he's backing and
you can see he has a hard time here
here's my imaginary line and my cows
over here so I ride along over here and
I apply just a little bit of left leg
and I stop my horse and I hold him with
that left leg I stepping back a little
bit I release that leg make him come
over himself
and walk that is a really really good
shoulder move you know this first series
is going to show you of all the flexions
that I want to do the way that I have to
control that body so when we advance
either for the cow work or the herd work
or just plain old horse training this
should help you and then you'll
understand why I do what I do
remember it takes a long time to figure
things out a horse's learning process is
very small this works for Ted Robinson
and that's why I'm happy to show it to
you today